

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html class="writer-html5" lang="en" >
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  
  <title>PROJ RFC 1: Project Committee Guidelines &mdash; PROJ 7.1.0 documentation</title>
  

  
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/css/theme.css" type="text/css" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/theme_overrides.css" type="text/css" />

  
  
    <link rel="shortcut icon" href="../../_static/favicon.png"/>
  
  
  
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://proj.orgcommunity/rfc/rfc-1.html"/>
  

  
  <!--[if lt IE 9]>
    <script src="../../_static/js/html5shiv.min.js"></script>
  <![endif]-->
  
    
      <script type="text/javascript" id="documentation_options" data-url_root="../../" src="../../_static/documentation_options.js"></script>
        <script src="../../_static/jquery.js"></script>
        <script src="../../_static/underscore.js"></script>
        <script src="../../_static/doctools.js"></script>
        <script src="../../_static/language_data.js"></script>
        <script async="async" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.7/latest.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"></script>
    
    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../_static/js/theme.js"></script>

    
    <link rel="author" title="About these documents" href="../../about.html" />
    <link rel="index" title="Index" href="../../genindex.html" />
    <link rel="search" title="Search" href="../../search.html" />
    <link rel="next" title="PROJ RFC 2: Initial integration of “GDAL SRS barn” work" href="rfc-2.html" />
    <link rel="prev" title="Request for Comments" href="index.html" /> 
</head>

<body class="wy-body-for-nav">

   
  <div class="wy-grid-for-nav">
    
    <nav data-toggle="wy-nav-shift" class="wy-nav-side">
      <div class="wy-side-scroll">
        <div class="wy-side-nav-search"  style="background: #353130" >
          

          
            <a href="../../index.html">
          

          
            
            <img src="../../_static/logo.png" class="logo" alt="Logo"/>
          
          </a>

          
            
            
              <div class="version">
                7.1.0
              </div>
            
          

          
<div role="search">
  <form id="rtd-search-form" class="wy-form" action="../../search.html" method="get">
    <input type="text" name="q" placeholder="Search docs" />
    <input type="hidden" name="check_keywords" value="yes" />
    <input type="hidden" name="area" value="default" />
  </form>
</div>

          
        </div>

        
        <div class="wy-menu wy-menu-vertical" data-spy="affix" role="navigation" aria-label="main navigation">
          
            
            
              
            
            
              <ul class="current">
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../about.html">About</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../news.html">News</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../download.html">Download</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../install.html">Installation</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../usage/index.html">Using PROJ</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../apps/index.html">Applications</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../operations/index.html">Coordinate operations</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../resource_files.html">Resource files</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../geodesic.html">Geodesic calculations</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../development/index.html">Development</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../specifications/index.html">Specifications</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1 current"><a class="reference internal" href="../index.html">Community</a><ul class="current">
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="../channels.html">Communication channels</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="../contributing.html">Contributing</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="../code_contributions.html">Guidelines for PROJ code contributors</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="../code_of_conduct.html">Code of Conduct</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2 current"><a class="reference internal" href="index.html">Request for Comments</a><ul class="current">
<li class="toctree-l3 current"><a class="current reference internal" href="#">PROJ RFC 1: Project Committee Guidelines</a><ul>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#summary">Summary</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#list-of-psc-members">List of PSC Members</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#detailed-process">Detailed Process</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#when-is-vote-required">When is Vote Required?</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#observations">Observations</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#committee-membership">Committee Membership</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#membership-responsibilities">Membership Responsibilities</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l4"><a class="reference internal" href="#updates">Updates</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toctree-l3"><a class="reference internal" href="rfc-2.html">PROJ RFC 2: Initial integration of “GDAL SRS barn” work</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l3"><a class="reference internal" href="rfc-3.html">PROJ RFC 3: Dependency management</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l3"><a class="reference internal" href="rfc-4.html">PROJ RFC 4: Remote access to grids and GeoTIFF grids</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l3"><a class="reference internal" href="rfc-5.html">PROJ RFC 5: Adopt GeoTIFF-based grids for grids delivered with PROJ</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="../index.html#conference">Conference</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../faq.html">FAQ</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../glossary.html">Glossary</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="../../zreferences.html">References</a></li>
</ul>

            
          
        </div>
        
      </div>
    </nav>

    <section data-toggle="wy-nav-shift" class="wy-nav-content-wrap">

      
      <nav class="wy-nav-top" aria-label="top navigation">
        
          <i data-toggle="wy-nav-top" class="fa fa-bars"></i>
          <a href="../../index.html">PROJ</a>
        
      </nav>


      <div class="wy-nav-content">
        
        <div class="rst-content">
        
          















<div role="navigation" aria-label="breadcrumbs navigation">

  <ul class="wy-breadcrumbs">
    
      <li><a href="../../index.html" class="icon icon-home"></a> &raquo;</li>
        
          <li><a href="../index.html">Community</a> &raquo;</li>
        
          <li><a href="index.html">Request for Comments</a> &raquo;</li>
        
      <li>PROJ RFC 1: Project Committee Guidelines</li>
    
    
      <li class="wy-breadcrumbs-aside">
        
            
            
              <a href="https://github.com/OSGeo/PROJ/edit//7.1/docs/source/community/rfc/rfc-1.rst" class="fa fa-github"> Edit on GitHub</a>
            
          
        
      </li>
    
  </ul>

  
  <div class="rst-breadcrumbs-buttons" role="navigation" aria-label="breadcrumb navigation">
      
        <a href="rfc-2.html" class="btn btn-neutral float-right" title="PROJ RFC 2: Initial integration of “GDAL SRS barn” work" accesskey="n">Next <span class="fa fa-arrow-circle-right"></span></a>
      
      
        <a href="index.html" class="btn btn-neutral float-left" title="Request for Comments" accesskey="p"><span class="fa fa-arrow-circle-left"></span> Previous</a>
      
  </div>
  
  <hr/>
</div>
          <div role="main" class="document" itemscope="itemscope" itemtype="http://schema.org/Article">
           <div itemprop="articleBody">
            
  <div class="section" id="proj-rfc-1-project-committee-guidelines">
<span id="rfc1"></span><h1>PROJ RFC 1: Project Committee Guidelines<a class="headerlink" href="#proj-rfc-1-project-committee-guidelines" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h1>
<dl class="field-list simple">
<dt class="field-odd">Author</dt>
<dd class="field-odd"><p>Frank Warmerdam, Howard Butler</p>
</dd>
<dt class="field-even">Contact</dt>
<dd class="field-even"><p><a class="reference external" href="mailto:howard&#37;&#52;&#48;hobu&#46;co">howard<span>&#64;</span>hobu<span>&#46;</span>co</a></p>
</dd>
<dt class="field-odd">Status</dt>
<dd class="field-odd"><p>Passed</p>
</dd>
<dt class="field-even">Last Updated</dt>
<dd class="field-even"><p>2018-06-08</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<div class="section" id="summary">
<h2>Summary<a class="headerlink" href="#summary" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<p>This document describes how the PROJ Project Steering Committee (PSC)
determines membership, and makes decisions on all aspects of the
PROJ project - both technical and non-technical.</p>
<p>Examples of PSC management responsibilities:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>setting the overall development road map</p></li>
<li><p>developing technical standards and policies (e.g. coding standards,
file naming conventions, etc…)</p></li>
<li><p>ensuring regular releases (major and maintenance) of PROJ software</p></li>
<li><p>reviewing RFC for technical enhancements to the software</p></li>
<li><p>project infrastructure (e.g. GitHub, continuous integration hosting options, etc…)</p></li>
<li><p>formalization of affiliation with external entities such as OSGeo</p></li>
<li><p>setting project priorities, especially with respect to project sponsorship</p></li>
<li><p>creation and oversight of specialized sub-committees (e.g. project
infrastructure, training)</p></li>
</ul>
<p>In brief the project team votes on proposals on the <a class="reference external" href="http://lists.maptools.org/mailman/listinfo/proj">proj mailing list</a>.  Proposals are available for review for at least two days, and a single
veto is sufficient delay progress though ultimately a majority of members can
pass a proposal.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="list-of-psc-members">
<h2>List of PSC Members<a class="headerlink" href="#list-of-psc-members" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<p>(up-to-date as of 2018-06)</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Kristian Evers <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/kbevers">&#64;kbevers</a> (DK) <strong>Chair</strong></p></li>
<li><p>Howard Butler <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/hobu">&#64;hobu</a> (USA)</p></li>
<li><p>Charles Karney <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/cffk">&#64;cffk</a> (USA)</p></li>
<li><p>Thomas Knudsen <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/busstoptaktik">&#64;busstoptaktik</a> (DK)</p></li>
<li><p>Even Rouault <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/rouault">&#64;rouault</a> (FR)</p></li>
<li><p>Kurt Schwehr <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/schwehr">&#64;schwehr</a> (USA)</p></li>
<li><p>Frank Warmerdam <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/warmerdam">&#64;warmerdam</a> (USA) <strong>Emeritus</strong></p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="detailed-process">
<h2>Detailed Process<a class="headerlink" href="#detailed-process" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Proposals are written up and submitted on the <a class="reference external" href="http://lists.maptools.org/mailman/listinfo/proj">proj mailing list</a>
for discussion and voting, by any interested party, not just
committee members.</p></li>
<li><p>Proposals need to be available for review for at least two business
days before a final decision can be made.</p></li>
<li><p>Respondents may vote “+1” to indicate support for the proposal and a
willingness to support implementation.</p></li>
<li><p>Respondents may vote “-1” to veto a proposal, but must provide clear
reasoning and alternate approaches to resolving the problem within
the two days.</p></li>
<li><p>A vote of -0 indicates mild disagreement, but has no effect.  A 0
indicates no opinion.  A +0 indicate mild support, but has no
effect.</p></li>
<li><p>Anyone may comment on proposals on the list, but only members of the
Project Steering Committee’s votes will be counted.</p></li>
<li><p>A proposal will be accepted if it receives +2 (including the
author) and no vetoes (-1).</p></li>
<li><p>If a proposal is vetoed, and it cannot be revised to satisfy all
parties, then it can be resubmitted for an override vote in which a
majority of all eligible voters indicating +1 is sufficient to pass it.
Note that this is a majority of all committee members, not just those who
actively vote.</p></li>
<li><p>Upon completion of discussion and voting the author should announce
whether they are proceeding (proposal accepted) or are withdrawing
their proposal (vetoed).</p></li>
<li><p>The Chair gets a vote.</p></li>
<li><p>The Chair is responsible for keeping track of who is a member of the
Project Steering Committee (perhaps as part of a PSC file in CVS).</p></li>
<li><p>Addition and removal of members from the committee, as well as selection
of a Chair should be handled as a proposal to the committee.</p></li>
<li><p>The Chair adjudicates in cases of disputes about voting.</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="rfc-origin">
<h3>RFC Origin<a class="headerlink" href="#rfc-origin" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h3>
<p>PROJ RFC and Project Steering Committee is derived from similar governance
bodies in both the <a class="reference external" href="https://trac.osgeo.org/gdal/wiki/rfc1_pmc">GDAL</a> and
<a class="reference external" href="http://mapserver.org/development/rfc/ms-rfc-23.html">MapServer</a> software
projects.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="when-is-vote-required">
<h2>When is Vote Required?<a class="headerlink" href="#when-is-vote-required" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Any change to committee membership (new members, removing inactive members)</p></li>
<li><p>Changes to project infrastructure (e.g. tool, location or substantive
configuration)</p></li>
<li><p>Anything that could cause backward compatibility issues.</p></li>
<li><p>Adding substantial amounts of new code.</p></li>
<li><p>Changing inter-subsystem APIs, or objects.</p></li>
<li><p>Issues of procedure.</p></li>
<li><p>When releases should take place.</p></li>
<li><p>Anything dealing with relationships with external entities such as OSGeo</p></li>
<li><p>Anything that might be controversial.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="observations">
<h2>Observations<a class="headerlink" href="#observations" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The Chair is the ultimate adjudicator if things break down.</p></li>
<li><p>The absolute majority rule can be used to override an obstructionist
veto, but it is intended that in normal circumstances vetoers need to be
convinced to withdraw their veto.  We are trying to reach consensus.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="committee-membership">
<h2>Committee Membership<a class="headerlink" href="#committee-membership" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<p>The PSC is made up of individuals consisting of technical contributors
(e.g. developers) and prominent members of the PROJ user community.
There is no set number of members for the PSC although the initial desire
is to set the membership at 6.</p>
<div class="section" id="adding-members">
<h3>Adding Members<a class="headerlink" href="#adding-members" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h3>
<p>Any member of the <a class="reference external" href="http://lists.maptools.org/mailman/listinfo/proj">proj mailing list</a> may nominate someone for
committee membership at any time. Only existing PSC committee members may
vote on new members.  Nominees must receive a majority vote from existing
members to be added to the PSC.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="stepping-down">
<h3>Stepping Down<a class="headerlink" href="#stepping-down" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h3>
<p>If for any reason a PSC member is not able to fully participate then they
certainly are free to step down.  If a member is not active (e.g. no
voting, no IRC or email participation) for a period of two months then
the committee reserves the right to seek nominations to fill that position.
Should that person become active again (hey, it happens) then they would
certainly be welcome, but would require a nomination.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="membership-responsibilities">
<h2>Membership Responsibilities<a class="headerlink" href="#membership-responsibilities" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<div class="section" id="guiding-development">
<h3>Guiding Development<a class="headerlink" href="#guiding-development" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h3>
<p>Members should take an active role guiding the development of new features
they feel passionate about. Once a change request has been accepted
and given a green light to proceed does not mean the members are free of
their obligation. PSC members voting “+1” for a change request are
expected to stay engaged and ensure the change is implemented and
documented in a way that is most beneficial to users. Note that this
applies not only to change requests that affect code, but also those
that affect the web site, technical infrastructure, policies and standards.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="mailing-list-participation">
<h3>Mailing List Participation<a class="headerlink" href="#mailing-list-participation" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h3>
<p>PSC members are expected to be active on the
<a class="reference external" href="http://lists.maptools.org/mailman/listinfo/proj">proj mailing list</a>, subject to Open Source mailing list
etiquette. Non-developer members of the PSC are not expected to respond
to coding level questions on the developer mailing list, however they
are expected to provide their thoughts and opinions on user level
requirements and compatibility issues when RFC discussions take place.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="updates">
<h2>Updates<a class="headerlink" href="#updates" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h2>
<p><strong>June 2018</strong></p>
<p>RFC 1 was ratified by the following members</p>
</div>
</div>


           </div>
           
          </div>
          <footer>
  
    <div class="rst-footer-buttons" role="navigation" aria-label="footer navigation">
      
        <a href="rfc-2.html" class="btn btn-neutral float-right" title="PROJ RFC 2: Initial integration of “GDAL SRS barn” work" accesskey="n" rel="next">Next <span class="fa fa-arrow-circle-right"></span></a>
      
      
        <a href="index.html" class="btn btn-neutral float-left" title="Request for Comments" accesskey="p" rel="prev"><span class="fa fa-arrow-circle-left"></span> Previous</a>
      
    </div>
  

  <hr/>

  <div role="contentinfo">
    <p>
        
        &copy; Copyright 1983-2020
      <span class="lastupdated">
        Last updated on 07 Aug 2020.
      </span>

    </p>
  </div>
    
    
    
    Built with <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> using a
    
    <a href="https://github.com/rtfd/sphinx_rtd_theme">theme</a>
    
    provided by <a href="https://readthedocs.org">Read the Docs</a>. 

</footer>

        </div>
      </div>

    </section>

  </div>
  

  <script type="text/javascript">
      jQuery(function () {
          SphinxRtdTheme.Navigation.enable(true);
      });
  </script>

  
  
    
   

</body>
</html>